# Abstract
Based on the e-commerce platform, CarDekho, the vehicle dataset contains information about used vehicles in India. Within the dataset, 13 labels are categorized that describe the name, year, selling price, and more defining each entry. The purpose of the dataset is to predict the selling price of the used vehicles. To predict the selling price, the model will be a linear regression model to calculate the Root Mean Squared Error of the selling price. Along with the linear regression, the model will go through a 2nd degree and 4rd degree polynomial regression, decision tree regression, and random forest regression. Overall, the random forest regression model worked the best with the RMSE being 58,273.84 rupees on the train set and 70,790.49 rupees on the test set. This converts to $773.59 on the train set and $939.75 on the test set. Although the error for predicting the price is ~$700-$800, the error may seem to high for a consumer looking to purchase a used car.  


# Introduction
The dataset, Vehicles contains information about used cars in India. The data itself came from Dekho.com, which is an e-commerce website where people and dealerships can buy and sell used and new cars. In total there are 8,128 entries and 13 categories. Vehicle dataset was created by a student named Nehal Birla, a student from University of Buffalo. The output for this project is Selling Price, because the purpose of this dataset is to predict the selling price of the used vehicles. 


# Data
Out of the 13 columns listed, 8 categories are listed as an object datatype while the other 5 were numeric. Also, within the dataset, there were missing values among mileage, engine, max power, torque, and seats. The histograms listed below show the initial numerical categories and their values. Although there were initially 5 numerical categories, 2 object categories were converted from objects to floats. Those categories were mileage and engine. After converting the categories, a correlation matrix was created to see any correlations between the numerical inputs and the selling price. Overall, the majority of the values directly correlate with the output with mileage and km driven being inversely correlated. 
 
# Methods and Materials
Stated earlier the purpose of this model is to predict the selling price of used vehicles. The approach for this problem is to create a linear regression model that will calculate the Root Mean Squared Error (RMSE). Ideally, the goal is to minimize the RMSE as much as possible without overfitting. 

Before training the model, the data must be prepared. The model will have the dataset split into two categories, a train set and a test set. Then the model will have the output separated from the inputs. The output for this model is called Cars_labels. Along with changing 2 of the categorical values to numeric values, the dataset also contains missing values, the model will remove every row that contains missing values. Next, a pipeline will be created to scale the numerical values and encode categorical values. Finally, the pipeline will be implemented to train the model. 

The first model that was created was a linear regression model. This was created first because it is the simplest model to create for this project. Next, the second model that was created was a polynomial regression. Two polynomial regression models were created with the first one being a 2nd degree polynomial and the second one being a 3rd degree polynomial. Unlike a linear regression model that has one line distribution, the polynomial regression model has a line distribution that connects to more of the data points making the RMSE lower. The next model that was created is a decision tree regression to further lower the RMSE. This model was created because it helps fit the dataset without overfitting. Finally, the last model created was a random forest regression, which uses multiple decision trees. Both the train and test set were trained with every model.

# Discussion
After training the model, Random Forest Regression produced the best results with the train set being $773.59 and the test set being $939.75. For the Random Forest Regression model, a grid search was used to determine the best parameters for the model. The parameters that were used were “Max Features” and “N estimators”. Max Features was equal to 10 and N Estimators was equal to 30. 

For the 2nd and 3rd degree polynomial regression, the test set was considered to be overfitting causing the RMSE to be much higher than the train set. This was due to trying to fit every data point within the curve. To address the overfitting, an elastic net was used to decrease the RMSE for the test set and make it closer to the train set. Overall, the Random Forest Regression model still produced the best results. 

# Conclusion
The purpose of the project is to predict the selling price of used vehicles. Using a linear regression model, the goal can be achieved by calculating the RMSE in order to make an accurate prediction. 5 different models were made, which were linear regression, polynomial regression at both 2nd and 3rd degree, decision tree regression, and random forest regression. The random forest regression model produced the lowest error with the train set being $773.59 and the test set being $939.75. This model might seem low with the error for predicting the price to be ~$700-$800; however, I think the error is still too high especially for a consumer looking to purchase a used vehicle. 
